---
layout: post
title:  "Social Science"
subtitle: "Some interesting subtitle."
date:   2017-04-16 23:01:57 +0800
categories: jekyll update
tags: social ai demo
comments: True
---

You’ll find this post in your `_posts` directory. Go ahead and edit it and re-build the site to see your changes. You can rebuild the site in many different ways, but the most common way is to run `jekyll serve`, which launches a web server and auto-regenerates your site when a file is updated.

<div class='note note-left'>
	<p>
		This is a note.
	</p>
	<p>
		Something else.
	</p>
</div>

To add new posts, simply add a file in the `_posts` directory that follows the convention `YYYY-MM-DD-name-of-post.ext` and includes the necessary front matter. Take a look at the source for this post to get an idea about how it works.

<div class='note note-right'>
	<p>
		Another note. To add new posts, simply add a file in the `_posts` directory that follows the convention `YYYY-MM-DD-name-of-post.ext` and includes the necessary front matter. Take a look at the source for this post to get an idea about how it works.
	</p>
</div>

Jekyll also offers powerful support for code snippets:

{% highlight python %}
if test is False:
	print ("HI")
{% endhighlight %}

---

Check out the [Jekyll docs][jekyll-docs] for more info on how to get the most out of Jekyll. File all bugs/feature requests at [Jekyll’s GitHub repo][jekyll-gh]. If you have questions, you can ask them on [Jekyll Talk][jekyll-talk].

[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/

<div id='demo-1'>
</div>

<script>
	function make_interactive(anchor) {
		console.log(anchor)
		if (anchor.nodeName == 'P') {
			anchor = anchor.parentElement;
		}
		expand_string = '<p>Click to expand</p>'
		if (anchor.innerHTML.substring(0, expand_string.length) != expand_string) {
			anchor.innerHTML = expand_string + anchor.innerHTML
			anchor.style.height = '25px';
		} else {
			anchor.innerHTML = anchor.innerHTML.substring(expand_string.length)
			anchor.style.height = 'initial';
			open = true
		}
	}
	window.onload = function() {
        var anchors = document.getElementsByClassName('note');
        for(var i = 0; i < anchors.length; i++) {
            var anchor = anchors[i];
            make_interactive(anchor)
            anchor.addEventListener('click', function(event){
			    make_interactive(event.target);
			});
        }
    }
	
	
</script>
